# Trading Framework

## Overview

The Trading Framework is a Python-based **event-driven** algorithmic trading framework designed with the SOLID principles of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP). This framework integrates seamlessly with MetaTrader 5, providing an easy and flexible way to implement and test various trading strategies. **Note: This framework is designed to work on Windows OS only due to MetaTrader 5 compatibility.**

## Features

- **SOLID Design**: The framework adheres to the SOLID principles of software design, ensuring scalability, maintainability, and testability.
- **Strategy Integration**: Easily integrate and test different trading strategies.
- **Modular Components**: Components are modular and reusable, allowing for customization and extension.
- **Real-time Trading**: Support for real-time trading with MetaTrader 5.

## Installation

To install the Trading Framework, you need to clone the repository and install the required dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/k3b4bb/mt5-framework.git
cd trading-framework
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Setup
You will need to add a .env file on the root directory of the repository with this info:
```.env
MT5_PATH=(MT5 PATH IN YOUR SYSTEM)
MT5_LOGIN=(YOUR MT5 LOGIN)
MT5_PASSWORD=(YOUR MT5 PASSWORD)
MT5_SERVER=(YOUR SERVER)
MT5_TIMEOUT=(YOUR TIMEOUT)
MT5_PORTABLE=(Bool)
TELEGRAM_TOKEN=(YOUR TELEGRAM BOT TOKEN ID)
TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID=(IN CASE YOU WANT TO NOTIFY A GROUP)
```
## Requirements
Requirements
- Windows OS
- MetaTrader 5
- Python 3.11

### Recommendations
- This framework works with an event-driven workflow. Each module recieves a type of even from the previous module and puts its own kind of event on queue
- The main processes happen on the trading_app.py. The aim of this framework is that you can switch completly different strategies by modifying one line of code
- It is recommended to run a virtual environmet with anaconda
- The python library metatrader5 has builtin functions written and compiled in C so the binaries just work on Windows
- You can deploy your strategies with this framework with cloud VPS like AWS EC2 so they are working 24/7

## MODULES

### Trading App
The Trading App module serves as the entry point and orchestrates the overall functionality of the trading framework. It initializes necessary components, handles user interactions, and manages the lifecycle of trading operations.

### Data Provider
The Data Provider module is responsible for fetching and managing market data required for trading activities. It interfaces with mt5 data sources, retrieves historical and real-time data, and provides an interface for data preprocessing.

### Signal Generator
The Signal Generator module generates trading signals based on market data and predefined strategies. It encapsulates logic for signal generation, which serves as the foundation for making trading decisions.

### Position Sizer
The Position Sizer module determines the size of each trading position based on risk management rules and strategy parameters. It calculates the optimal position size to achieve desired risk-reward ratios and manage portfolio exposure.

### Risk Manager
The Risk Manager module evaluates and mitigates potential risks associated with trading activities. It defines risk metrics, monitors portfolio risk exposure, and implements risk control measures to safeguard against adverse market conditions.

### Order Executor
The Order Executor module facilitates the execution of trading orders generated by the framework. It interfaces with brokers or trading platforms, submits orders, monitors order status, and handles order execution logistics.

### Trading Director
The Trading Director module acts as the central coordinator of trading operations. It integrates and synchronizes activities across different modules, manages trading workflows, and ensures seamless execution of trading strategies.

### Portfolio
The Portfolio module tracks and manages the performance of trading positions and investments. It maintains a record of asset allocations, monitors portfolio metrics, and provides insights into portfolio diversification and performance analysis.

### Utils
The Utils module contains utility functions and helper classes used across the framework. It includes common functionalities such as date/time manipulation, logging utilities, data visualization tools, and other miscellaneous tools to support trading operations.

## SOLID Principles
- Single Responsibility Principle: Each class in the framework has a single responsibility.
- Open/Closed Principle: Classes are open for extension but closed for modification.
- Liskov Substitution Principle: Derived classes can be substituted for their base classes.
- Interface Segregation Principle: The framework uses fine-grained interfaces tailored to specific client needs.
- Dependency Inversion Principle: High-level modules do not depend on low-level modules; both depend on abstractions.

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and create a pull request with your changes. Make sure to follow the coding standards and include appropriate tests.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

## Contact
For questions or support, please contact enriquemartin1402@gmail.com

